the US President Joe Biden says he
believes a hostage deal between Hamas
and Israel is near around 240 hostages
were taken on October the 7th by Hamas
which is designated a terrorist
organization by the UK government the
White House says they are closer they
think than ever before to freeing some
of them in Gaza a group of 28 premature
babies who were trapped by the fighting
around the AL shifa Hospital in Gaza
City have now arrived in Egypt via the
Rafa Crossing from medical treatment our
senior International correspondent
oliran reports now from
Jerusalem alive against the
odds premature babies rescued from Al
shaa Hospital parents cluster around
before they are transferred from
Gaza this man seems to be identifying
his
son nor albana has just been reunited
with her twin
girls I didn't know anything about their
condition today I saw them for the first
time since the day they were
born thank God I have been reassured
that they are
fine then they are wrapped up for the
journey across the border faces of the
war in Gaza whose suffering caught the
attention of the
world in Egypt specialist standing by
with a waiting
incubator still desperately vulnerable
but now safe from
harm unlike about a million other
children who remain trapped in
Gaza in Israel families of those held in
Gaza are daring to hope there will be a
deal to free at least some of
them
this was the moment on October 7th when
the hostage Oreal began here women being
dragged Away by Hamas Barefoot and in
Terror Arab Gil Dickman's cousin was
among she's going to find a ways to make
this better so this is my cousin Carmel
39 years old she's an occupational
therapist she loves traveling she loves
music she's a wonderful ant Carmel Gat
is being held along with her
sister-in-law yarden whose
three-year-old keeps asking when she is
coming
home doesn't give us any signs of life
we don't even know whether yarden and
carel my cousin and her sister-in-law
are alive or not the same goes for about
40 Israeli children being held hostage
among them
babies the children are expected to be
freed if there is a deal along with some
women Gil knows his loved ones may not
get out now some of them are going to
come before the others and they
understand that some of them are going
to come before carel and yardan I
believe if they're there they also
understand it and they want the children
to come back before
them for Israelis a deal may bring
dozens of hostages home for Palestinians
a few days respite from Israeli bombings
or gearan BBC News
Jerusalem so how close could we be to
hostages being released our security
correspondent Frank Gardner is with me
the White House is is sounding fairly
optimistic yeah they are I mean I've
spoken to a number of people involved
indirectly in this potential deal and
they are optimistic but we've been here
before and this is terrible for the
families who have had their hopes raised
and then dashed but I have to say that I
think we're probably closer than we've
ever been before we're talking here
about an arrangement that would see
around 50 to 70 hostages Israeli
hostages non-combatants so not the
soldiers who were captured but women
children civilians released in an
initial batch and in return there would
be a pause of say 6 hours a day for
about four days um for three to 5 days
and there would be fuel allowed into
Gaza now none of this is actually agreed
absolutely yet but what the parties are
saying is that the fundamental agreement
is in place what's been holding it up is
the logistics and the practicalities of
it what does that mean in practice well
the negotiations are taking place in
Doha in Qatar but it takes time to get
those messages back to the military
commanders in Gaza who of course are
fighting a war and they're underground
so they don't get immediate answers and
of course the longer this war goes on
the fewer of those military commanders
there are to actually answer it then
you've got to gather in the hostages who
are held in different places if you cast
your mind back to that horrific day on
October the 7th as soon as they got them
to Gaza they scattered them out to
different places to getting the back in
and getting the Red Cross to come in and
take them out it'll take time Frank
godner thank you